DOCS-8339 NetSuite Connector 10 Kim Edits (#890)
mulesoft/docs-connectors: netsuite/10.0/modules/ROOT/pages/netsuite-call-restlets-example.adoc

= Call NetSuite RESTlets Example

This example shows how to call NetSuite RESTlets that are deployed in NetSuite instances to:

* Create a customer record
* Retrieve a customer record

> * Delete a record

Reviewer: a customer record?

Reviewer: I sort of expected the subtopics to be create, retrieve, and delete rather than deploy, import, and about the flows.
Do we have a disconnect between the intro to the topic set and the topics within that set?

== Prerequisites

To follow these examples, you must have:

* Java 8
* Anypoint Studio 7.0.x

> * Mule Runtime 4.1.1 or later

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Mule runtime engine 4.1.1 or later
```

* DataWeave 2.0
* Access to a NetSuite instance with credentials in the `mule-app.properties` file

[[deploy-a-script-as-restlet]]
== Deploy a Script as a RESTlet

> 

Reviewer: Should there be transition text here to explain what this means and why you want or need to do this?
What is the context?
Ditto prev. comment about intro.

> . Create a sample JavaScript script:

Reviewer: So this step, specifically, is where we show getting a record, creating a record, validating mandatory record type, and deleting record, as introduced at the beginning?
Note that the list of actions does not quite match.
Also, if this is the user journey, then why the other subtopics? Why aren't they introduced at the beginning as well?

    // for example, recordtype="customer", id="769"
}

// Create a standard NetSuite record

function createRecord(datain)
{
    var err = new Object();

    // Validate if mandatory record type is set in the request
    if (!datain.recordtype)
    {
        err.status = "failed";
        err.message= "missing recordtype";
        return err;
    }

    var record = nlapiCreateRecord(datain.recordtype);

    for (var fieldname in datain)
    {
      if (datain.hasOwnProperty(fieldname))
      {
        if (fieldname != 'recordtype' && fieldname != 'id')
        {
          var value = datain[fieldname];
            if (value && typeof value != 'object')
            // ignore other type of parameters
            {
              record.setFieldValue(fieldname, value);
            }
        }
      }
    }
    var recordId = nlapiSubmitRecord(record);
    nlapiLogExecution('DEBUG','id='+recordId);
    var nlobj = nlapiLoadRecord(datain.recordtype,recordId);
    return nlobj;
}

// Delete a standard NetSuite record
function deleteRecord(datain)
{
  nlapiDeleteRecord(datain.recordtype, datain.id);
  // for example: recordtype="customer", id="769"

}
----
+

> . Enable SuiteScript and NetSuite Web Services in your account. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Enable SuiteScript and NetSuite Web Services in your account:
```

.. Log in to NetSuite.

> .. Click *Set Up > Company > Enable Features > SuiteCloud*.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. Click *Set Up > Company > Enable Features > SuiteCloud*:
```

+
image::netsuite-enable-suitescript.png[Enable SuiteScript]
+

> . Create a new script and upload the file you <<deploy-a-script-as-restlet,previously created>>.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Create a new script and upload the file you <<deploy-a-script-as-restlet,previously created>>:
```

.. Go to *Customization > Scripting > Scripts > New*.

> .. Select the script file, click *Create Script Record*, and select *RESTlet*.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. Select the script file, click *Create Script Record*, and select *RESTlet*:
```

+
image::netsuite-script-type.png[Select Script Type]
+

> . Fill out the form using the content of the script you uploaded, and deploy the script.

Reviewer: I'm confused about the rest of this task: when does actual DEPLOYMENT take place?
What I see here is a one step to set up the script, and after selecting the audience, a deployment page appears but the user takes no action on that page but just notes the info?

If this is really two steps that should be separated:
```suggestion
. Complete the form using the content of the script you uploaded:
```

Author: This step is where they are deploying the script. That's the deployment.

+
image::netsuite-setup-script.png[Setup Script]
+

> . After selecting your audience you see the following page:

Reviewer: This looks like it should be the deployment step, but there is no user action here that indicates deploying after selecting the audience?
This alone is not a step (action):
```suggestion
. After selecting your audience, you see the following page:
```

Author: They deployed in step 91

+
image::netsuite-script-deployment.png[Script Deployment]
+ 

> Take note of the script and deploy numbers in the external URL as you will need them later to call the RESTlet.

Reviewer: When did the deployment step occur, resulting in "the script and deploy numbers"?
```suggestion
Write down the script and deploy numbers that appear in the external URL, because you need them to call the RESTlet later.
```

> == Import the Project

Reviewer: Import what project? 

How does this relate to the previous task of **deploying a script** as a RESTlet, and how do they together exemplify **calling NetSuite RESTlets**?

Again, the container task is calling RESTlets, and the intro text says that you **call them so that you can deploy them to create, retrieve, and delete records**. But the subtasks are **deploying** a script as a RESTlet and then **importing** a project.

The verbs throughout the set are not consistent. What *is* the user task here?

> * Go to *File > Import*.

Reviewer: These are supposed to be steps, not bullets, right?
Also, from where does Step 1 take place...where the previous task left off, or somewhere else?

```suggestion
. Go to *File > Import*.
```

> * From the Anypoint Studio parent folder, select *Anypoint Studio Project > External Location*.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. From the Anypoint Studio parent folder, select *Anypoint Studio Project > External Location*.
```

> * Provide the root path to the demo project folder.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Provide the root path to the demo project folder.
```
Do we need to show an example? Is this the info we told the audience to write down?

Author: No, this isn't what they wrote down before.

> * Select Mule Runtime (4.1.1 or later).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Select your Mule version, 4.1.1 or later.
```

> * Click *Finish*.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Click *Finish*.
```

> * Configure the credentials, as well as the deployed script and deploy IDs, inside the file `src/main/resources/mule-app.properties`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Configure the credentials, including the deployed script and deploy IDs that you wrote down earlier, inside the file `src/main/resources/mule-app.properties`:
```

+
[source,javascript,linenums]
----
netsuite.email=
netsuite.password=
netsuite.account=
netsuite.roleId=
netsuite.applicationId=
netsuite.subsidiary=
netsuite.script=
netsuite.deploy=
----
+

> . Open the Global Element Configuration.

Reviewer: "open"? Is this a page or what? If this is a label, be sure to use bold for it.

> . Click *Test Connection* to ensure there is connectivity with the sandbox.

Reviewer: "there is connectivity with the sandbox"?
```suggestion
. Click *Test Connection* to ensure you can connect to the sandbox:
```
"you" connect, or your <something> can connect?

Reviewer: See below re. the colon...which points straight to the connection confirmation message.

+
Testing the connection is a crucial step. If you experience connectivity issues, you won't be able to execute any part of this example, nor make use of DataSense.
+

> . A successful message should appear:

Reviewer: I don't think this is essential. I would assume connectivity is required to execute.
And the message appearing is not a step.
So I would end the previous with a colon and just show the message as the result.

+
image::netsuite-demo-connection-test.png[Test Connection]
+
. Open a browser and access the URL `+http://localhost:8081+`. +
You should see the application deployed:
+
image::netsuite-demo-main-page.png[Demo Index]

> == About the Flows

Reviewer: What flows?
Are the flows displayed on the demo main page?
How do these flows fit in with the peer task topics?
Why are these steps; where are the user actions?

Reviewer: Following are copyedited only and assume a list rather than numbered steps.

Author: These aren't steps. But these are flows that appear when you import the demo project so the numbers are for a specific order to the flows. Flows have an order.

Reviewer: So...if the flows are part of importing the demo project, are they part of that task (a subtopic rather than a peer topic)?

> . The `html-form-flow` renders the HTML form with a `parseTemplate` component:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `html-form-flow` renders the HTML form with a `parseTemplate` component:
```
Or should this be, like all the following...:
```suggestion
. The `html-form` flow renders the HTML form with a `parseTemplate` component:
```

+
image::netsuite-html-form-flow.png[Flow HMTL Form]
+

> . The `restletGet` flow calls the GET function of a RESTlet:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The `restletGet` flow calls the GET function of a RESTlet:
```

+
image::netsuite-restlet-get.png[Flow HMTL Form]
+

> . The `restletPost` flow calls the POST function of a RESTlet:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The `restletPost` flow calls the POST function of a RESTlet:
```

+
image::netsuite-restlet-post.png[Flow Processor 1]
+

> . The `restletDelete` flow calls the DELETE function of a RESTlet:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The `restletDelete` flow calls the DELETE function of a RESTlet:
```

+
image::netsuite-restlet-delete.png[Flow Processor 1]

== See Also

* xref:connectors::introduction/introduction-to-anypoint-connectors.adoc[Introduction to Anypoint Connectors]

> * xref:index.adoc[NetSuite connector]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* xref:index.adoc[NetSuite Connector]
```

= Call NetSuite RESTlets Example

> This example shows how to call NetSuite RESTlets that are deployed in NetSuite instances.

Reviewer: Does the audience know why it wants or needs to follow this example (or these examples)? 
And the example (or examples) show three tasks: create RESTlet script, deploy RESTlet script, and import demo project?

== Prerequisites

> To follow these examples, you must have:

Reviewer: these examples or this example?
Are we referring to the container topic or the subtopics?

= Call NetSuite RESTlets Example
== Prerequisites
== Create and Deploy a Script as a RESTlet
== Import the Demo Project
== About the Flows

I am trying to understand how the second-level topics each relate to the Example container, and each other as peers.
I suspect that "About the Flows" is really part of the Demo Project topic?

            if (value && typeof value != 'object')
            // ignore other type of parameters
            {
              record.setFieldValue(fieldname, value);
            }
        }
      }
    }
    var recordId = nlapiSubmitRecord(record);
    nlapiLogExecution('DEBUG','id='+recordId);
    var nlobj = nlapiLoadRecord(datain.recordtype,recordId);
    return nlobj;
}

// Delete a standard NetSuite record
function deleteRecord(datain)
{
  nlapiDeleteRecord(datain.recordtype, datain.id);
  // for example: recordtype="customer", id="769"

}
----
+
. Enable SuiteScript and NetSuite Web Services in your account:
.. Log in to NetSuite.
.. Click *Set Up > Company > Enable Features > SuiteCloud*:
+
image::netsuite-enable-suitescript.png[Enable SuiteScript]
+
. Upload the file you <<deploy-a-script-as-restlet,previously created>>:
.. Go to *Customization > Scripting > Scripts > New*.
.. Select the script file, click *Create Script Record*, and select *RESTlet*:
+
image::netsuite-script-type.png[Select Script Type]
+
. Complete the form using the content of the script you uploaded, and deploy the script:
+
image::netsuite-setup-script.png[Setup Script]
+

> . After selecting your audience, you see the following page:

Reviewer: Again, this is not a step, unless you really mean...:
```suggestion
. Select your audience to view the following page:
```

+
image::netsuite-script-deployment.png[Script Deployment]
+ 
. Write down the script and deploy numbers that appear in the external URL, because you need them to call the RESTlet later.

== Import the Demo Project

> Import the NetSuite Connector `mule-netsuite-connector-restlet-demo` into Studio and configure the NetSuite login credentials to connect to NetSuite. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Import the NetSuite Connector `mule-netsuite-connector-restlet-demo` into Studio and configure the NetSuite login credentials to connect to NetSuite: 
```
So...this task is not just importing but also configuring? Should it be two tasks, then?

> . Go to https://github.com/mulesoft/mule4-netsuite-connector and download the connector as a ZIP. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Go to https://github.com/mulesoft/mule4-netsuite-connector and download the connector as a ZIP file. 
```
per style ref "file types and file extensions"

> . Unzip the downloaded ZIP. +

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Unzip the downloaded file. +
```

> This project is located in `mule4-netsuite-connector-master/demo/mule-netsuite-connector-restlet-demo`. 

Reviewer: Is this info supposed to tell you where the download is, or where you should move it, or is this a transition to a new task?

Author: When you unzip the ZIP, there are a bunch of folders. This is telling them which folder the demo is in.

. In Studio, go to *File > Import*.

> . Select the *Anypoint Studio*, then select *Anypoint Studio Project from File System* and click *Next*  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Select *Anypoint Studio*, then select *Anypoint Studio Project from File System* and click *Next*.
```
Any reason why this is one step and not two?
Is the grouping accurate: selecting AS takes you to a different place where you select ASPFFS and click Next?

> . In *Project Root*, navigate to the location of the `mule-netsuite-connector-restlet-demo` folder and select it. 

Reviewer: Is this supposed to be different from the narrative sentence I asked about above?

. In *Server runtime*, select *Mule Server* (4.1.1 or later).
. Click *Finish*.
. In *Package Explorer*, open the `src/main/resources/mule-app.properties` file that is located in the folder of the project you imported.  

> . Configure the credentials, deployed script, and deploy IDs:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Configure the credentials, deploy the script, and deploy the IDs:
```
OR
```suggestion
. Configure the credentials, deployed script, and deployment IDs:
```
Is this three tasks (config, deploy, and deploy) or is it one (configure these three things)?

Author: This is configuring properties, they are not deploying the script. They already deployed the script in the steps for creating and deploying the script. And the text reflects the nomenclature in the config file they will see.

+
[source,javascript,linenums]
----
netsuite.email=
netsuite.password=
netsuite.account=
netsuite.roleId=
netsuite.applicationId=
netsuite.subsidiary=
netsuite.script=
netsuite.deploy=
----
+
The `netsuite.script` and `netsuite.deploy` values are the values you wrote down in the last step of <<deploy-a-script-as-restlet,Create and Deploy a Script as a RESTlet>>. 
. Click *Global Elements* at the base of the project's canvas.

> . In *Global Configuration Elements*, select *NetSuite Rest config*, and click *Edit*.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. In *Global Configuration Elements*, select *NetSuite Rest config* and click *Edit*.
```

. Click *Test Connection* to ensure there is connectivity with the sandbox.
+

> A successful message should appear:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A success message appears:
```

+
image::netsuite-demo-connection-test.png[Test Connection]
+
. Open a browser and access the URL `+http://localhost:8081+`. +

> You should see the application deployed:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can see that the application deployed:
```
